=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial::SecondMigration - Upgrade the Database

=head1 GOAL

In this section you will change your database and learn how to create upgrade
files.  You will also create some custom fixture configurations and learn
about creating seed data.

=head1 Changing Requirements

So far your C<MusicBase> application is doing fine, but some new requirements
come down.  In addition to storing the Artist's name, we now want to store
some geographical information, in this case a C<Country> that can be associated
with the C<Artist>.  Right now we are just going to care about Artists that can
be located in one of the three following Countries:

    Canada
    Mexico
    USA

We'll need to seed that data to the database and also track it via some custom
fixture configurations.  That way if you need to start a new database from go
you can get both the table structure and the essential running information (in
this case the list of countries we care about could be considered system / 
domain data, not transactional data).  Let's do it!

=head2 Change the Schema

We will need to add a new table and then link that table to Artist.  From the
project home directory (containing the C<dist.ini> file) execute the following
command in your terminal shell.

    touch lib/MusicBase/Schema/Result/Country.pm

Then open this file in your text editor of choice and add the following code:

    package MusicBase::Schema::Result::Country;

    use strict;
    use warnings;

    use base 'DBIx::Class::Core';

    __PACKAGE__->table('country');

    __PACKAGE__->add_columns(
      'country_id' => {
        data_type => 'integer',
      },
      'name' => {
        data_type => 'varchar',
        size => '96',
      });

    __PACKAGE__->set_primary_key('country_id');
    __PACKAGE__->add_unique_constraint(['name']);
    __PACKAGE__->has_many(
      'artist_rs' => "MusicBase::Schema::Result::Artist",
      {'foreign.country_fk'=>'self.country_id'});

    1;

This will establish a new Result class with a one to many relationship to
the Artist Result class.  You probably notice that we are referencing a column
in the Artist Result class that does not yet exist.  Lets add that as well

Open C<lib/MusicBase/Schema/Result/Artist.pm> in your editor and change it to
look like this:

    package MusicBase::Schema::Result::Artist;

    use strict;
    use warnings;

    use base 'DBIx::Class::Core';

    __PACKAGE__->table('artist');

    __PACKAGE__->add_columns(
      artist_id => {
        data_type => 'integer',
      },
      country_fk => {
        data_type => 'integer',
      },
      name => {
        data_type => 'varchar',
        size => '96',
      });

    __PACKAGE__->set_primary_key('artist_id');

    __PACKAGE__->belongs_to(
      'has_country' => 'MusicBase::Schema::Result::Country',
      {'foreign.country_id'=>'self.country_fk'});

    __PACKAGE__->has_many(
      'cd_rs' => 'MusicBase::Schema::Result::Cd',
      {'foreign.artist_fk'=>'self.artist_id'});

    1;

So we added the foreign key field C<country_fk> and we added the other end of
our new relationship to Country (called C<has_country>).

Great, we've altered our schema to fit the new requirement.  Let's up the
C<$VERSION> and commit if you are using a repository.

Alter file C<lib/MusicBase/Schema.pm>

    package MusicBase::Schema;

    use strict;
    use warnings;

    use base 'DBIx::Class::Schema';

    our $VERSION = 2;

    __PACKAGE__->load_namespaces;

    1;

So we just change C<$VERSION> from 1 to 2, which is how the default configuration
of L<DBIx::Class::DeploymentHandler> works.

=head1 Prepare the new migration

Now that we've altered the schema and upped the version, we use the C<prepare>
command to create the version 2 files.  First, let's verify the status of our 
system:

    dbic-migration -Ilib status

Should return

    Schema is 2
    Deployed database is 1
    
That looks correct.  Let's get the database up to date.  First prepare the
files.

    dbic-migration -Ilib prepare

That will generate a bunch of new files.  Lets see the directory structure now.

    /share
      /fixtures
        /1
          (Same as before)
        /2
          /conf
            all_tables.json
      /migrations
        /_common
          (Same as before)
        /_source
          (system files for DBIC::DeploymentHandler.  Leave alone!)
        /SQLite
          /deploy
            /1
              (Same as before)
            /2
              001-auto-_VERSION.sql
              001-auto.sql
          /downgrade
            /2-1
              001-auto.sql
          /upgrade
            /1-2
              001-auto.sql
      musicbase-schema.db

Ok, we got a bunch more files.  You can see that we've created a new
C<all_tables.json> fixture configuration, which if you peek inside, you will
see has been updated to include your new Country Result class.

Additionally you can see we have a new version 2 directory under C<deploy>
which contains the full DDL for you new schema, as well as the special
metadata table that L<DBIx::Class::DeploymentHandler> uses to manage deployment
history.  You should take a quick look inside those as well, and see that
the new country table has been added.

So far all this is similar to Version 1.  What is different is you have the
new C<downgrade> and C<upgrade> directories.  For simplicity I will not deal
with downgrades for this section of the tutorial, and instead focus on the
upgrade path.

Lets take a closer look at C</upgrade>:

    /upgrade
      /1-2
        001-auto.sql

Since our schema was at version 2 and the database was at version 1, we created
a 1 to 2 upgrade path, which will allow us to get the database in sync with our
schema.  L<DBIx::Class::DeploymentHandler> will introspect your schema and
database using L<SQL::Translator> and try to suggest some DDL for this.  You
should treat this initial C<001-auto.sql> file as a suggestion and as a guide.
You will need to make changes to it based on your data change need (L<SQL::Translator>
knows about your table structure, but not your data) as well as your performance
and uptime needs.  For example, when changing a table that has 1 million rows
you might need to take an alternative approach than what is suggested.

This is the part of the job where you need to exercise the most planning and
good judgment, and you might need to involve your DBA to help you craft a
change set that can work for your particular needs.  In this case we have a very
small database using sqlite, so our needs are similarly small, however that
should not excuse us from planning!

Let's look at the proposed DDL change.  In the editor of your choice open
C<share/migrations/SQLite/upgrade/1-2/001-auto.sql>

    BEGIN;

    CREATE TABLE country (
      country_id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
      name varchar(96) NOT NULL
    );

    CREATE UNIQUE INDEX country_name ON country (name);

    ALTER TABLE artist ADD COLUMN country_fk integer NOT NULL;

    CREATE INDEX artist_idx_country_fk ON artist (country_fk);

    COMMIT;

So the first part of this that adds the C<country> table is pretty straight
forward.  Lets break that part out into its own upgrade step.  Generally even
if the DDL change proposed is perfect, I prefer to move the code to a file name
other than the default C<001-auto.sql> since if I need to prepare the upgrade
several times (as you might if you are building a new version and realize you
make a mistake and need to re prepare it, as we'll see in a later step) each
time you do it will overwrite that file, blowing away any customization you
made.  So lets bust out the first part:

    touch share/migrations/SQLite/upgrade/1-2/001-add_country.sql

And then open it in your text editor and add the following (copied from the
C<001-auto.sql> file).

    BEGIN;

    ;
    CREATE TABLE country (
      country_id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
      name varchar(96) NOT NULL
    );

    CREATE UNIQUE INDEX country_name ON country (name);

    ;
    COMMIT;

Great, now we have a step that makes a table.  Next, we need to add the list
of default countries.  For this we will use a Perl script similar to the one
we did for version 1.  You could do this in SQL if you wanted, just if I can
use a Perl script I would prefer that since it would be more portable across
other databases (and eventually you will need something other than SQLite for
production).  Lets add that now:

    mkdir share/migrations/_common/upgrade
    mkdir share/migrations/_common/upgrade/1-2
    touch share/migrations/_common/upgrade/1-2/002-insert_countries.pl

We are putting this in the C<_common> migrations directory so that later on if
we add another database (such as MySQL) we'd be able have it run for both.
Since Perl migration run files are going to be database agnostic, it makes
sense to do this.  You could have just as easily created a file: 

    ## example, you don't need to do this!
    touch share/migrations/SQLite/upgrade/1-2/002-insert_countries.pl

And that would have made a script that would only run on SQLite installs.

Lets edit our Perl run file:

C<share/migrations/_common/upgrade/1-2/002-insert_countries.pl>

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use DBIx::Class::Migration::RunScript;

    migrate {
      shift->schema
        ->resultset('Country')
        ->populate([
          ['name'],
          ['Canada'],
          ['Mexico'],
          ['USA'],
      ]);
    };

Since the C<populate> method uses bulk insertion, its generally my favored way
to insert rows for migrations.  Its going to be much faster than doing separate
inserts.  In this case we don't have a lot of data, so it didn't make a big
difference, just that later on if you data needs are larger it would have an
impact.

Ok, so let's look at the remaining part of the C<001-auto.sql> file that we
have not yet examined:

    ALTER TABLE artist ADD COLUMN country_fk integer NOT NULL;

    CREATE INDEX artist_idx_country_fk ON artist (country_fk);

So that only does part of the job.  First of all, we can't really add a NOT NULL
column without default values, since that's going to be a constraint.  Also the
foreign key is missing.  That's because it seems SQLite doesn't let you alter
a table to add that kind of constraint.  Let's look at the DDL for the new
artist table from the full ddl in C<share/migrations/SQLite/deploy/2/001-auto.sql>:

    CREATE TABLE artist (
      artist_id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
      country_fk integer NOT NULL,
      name varchar(96) NOT NULL,
      FOREIGN KEY(country_fk) REFERENCES country(country_id)
    );
    CREATE INDEX artist_idx_country_fk ON artist (country_fk);

Quite often when pondering a DDL change, it is valuable to glance at the full
DDL that we give you in the deploy directory, so that you can understand better
what the target is.  In this case it is really clear the diff is only getting
you partway there.

Alright, lets try to fix it.  Lets create a file to hold our code:

    touch share/migrations/SQLite/upgrade/1-2/003-change_artist.sql

So this is going to be the third step for this upgrade (the second one was to
add the country rows we need).  Open the file in your text editor and enter:

    BEGIN;

    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE artist_temp_alter (
      artist_id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
      name varchar(96) NOT NULL
    );

    INSERT INTO artist_temp_alter SELECT artist_id, name FROM artist;

    DROP TABLE artist;

    CREATE TABLE artist (
      artist_id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
      country_fk integer NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
      name varchar(96) NOT NULL,
      FOREIGN KEY(country_fk) REFERENCES country(country_id)
    );

    CREATE INDEX artist_idx_country_fk ON artist (country_fk);

    INSERT INTO artist SELECT artist_id, 1, name FROM artist_temp_alter;

    DROP TABLE artist_temp_alter;

    COMMIT;

So this was my personal best shot, but of course there is going to be more than
one way to do it.  I decided it would be best to create a temporary table to
hold the current artist info, build a new artist table with the correct FK
constraint and new column, and then copy back from the temp table.  Now, if I
had a million rows this wouldn't work out very well, but with a database that
big you'd probably have moved on to something that would actually allow you
to add an FK in an alter statement.  So I'll go with this since it does the
job.

Notice that when I copy back to the new artist table from the temporary table
I make all the artists live in the country matching country_id = 1 (Canada).
I'll leave it this way for the section of the tutorial, just to keep it simple
but in reality you would probably need to copy things more careful, or maybe
add an "UNKNOWN" country option to the list of countries.  We'll do an example
of something like that in a later section.  I just want to point out that when
you craft your migration code you need to interpret the suggested DDL change
and keep in mind how you data is put together.  That way you can craft a good
change set that keeps you database well constrained and organized.

Now that your are done converting the suggested DDL change, you should delete
the generated auto file, otherwise when later you run the migration, you will
end up doing more changes and get some errors.

    rm share/migrations/SQLite/upgrade/1-2/001-auto.sql 

Ok, so now you have a good set of migrations to move from version 1 to 2.  Lets
try that out now.

=head1 Upgrade the database

Once you have good migrations, its time to upgrade.  Typically I first make
sure the database is in a good known state:

    dbic-migration -Ilib drop_tables

That will blow away your tables, so be careful when using this command!  You
should see:

    Dropping table cd
    Dropping table track
    Dropping table artist
    Dropping table dbix_class_deploymenthandler_versions

Great, now the database is clear.  Let's install version 1

    dbic-migration -Ilib install --to_version 1

Since the schema is version 2 we need to explicitly mention the target version
we are deploying.  Otherwise L<DBIx::Class::Migration> will want to deploy a
version that matches the current schema.  We want to do an upgrade, not an
install, since we need to modify both the tables AND our data, then we can
build some good new fixtures.  Lets do the upgrade:

    dbic-migration -Ilib upgrade
    dbic-migration -Ilib status

That should give you:

    Schema is 2
    Deployed database is 2

Let's peek in the database and see if everything is good:

    sqlite3 share/musicbase-schema.db
    sqlite> .tables

Should give you:

    artist                  dbix_class_deploymenthandler_versions
    cd                      track                                
    country   

So there's our new table.  Lets make sure our data is correct:

    sqlite> select * from country;
    1|Canada
    2|Mexico
    3|USA

    sqlite> select * from artist;
    1|1|Michael Jackson
    2|1|Eminem

So looks like out migration worked out.  Later on we'll learn how to write
some test cases for our database, and I would highly suggestion that you write
some tests that make sure your migration worked as expected, rather than doing
the manual inspect as above

You are done with the upgrade, lets move on to make new fixtures.  Exit the
C<sqlite> shell:

    sqlite> .q

=head1 Customize Fixtures and Serializing Fixtures

When you C<prepared> the new version, in addition to creating the database
structure migrations, we also got a new version 2 directory for the fixtures.

    /share
      /fixtures
        /1
          (Same as before)
        /2
          /conf
            all_tables.json

By default we build you a fresh C<all_tables.json> that should reflect any new
or removed tables.  Additionally, if there were any custom fixture
configurations, we would have copied those from the version 1.  We didn't have
any custom files so nothing was copied.  Lets make a custom fixture config now:

    touch share/fixtures/2/conf/countries.json

We will make a fixture configuration to dump all the countries.  Since the list
of countries is part of your domain data (and not transaction data) you should
create fixtures for it so that when someone is setting up a new version 2
database they can install a version that has both the structure and the data
needed to have a functioning database.  Data that is part of the domain we call
'seed' data.  You'll need to create fixtures for all types of seed data, such
as country lists, roles, product names, etc.

So you can use fixtures for a variety of jobs, from created demo databases to
show clients, databases for developer, fixtures for running tests, and
fixtures to preserve necessary domain data.  You can then install a database
and setup whatever list of fixtures is needed for the job at hand.  Additionally
since our migrations perform updates on the database data, we can just dump new
fixtures after each clean update, and expect to have properly updated fixtures.

Here's our fixture configuration for C<share/fixtures/2/conf/countries.json>:

    {
       "sets" : [
          {
             "quantity" : "all",
             "class" : "Country"
          }
       ],
       "might_have" : {
          "fetch" : 0
       },
       "belongs_to" : {
          "fetch" : 0
       },
       "has_many" : {
          "fetch" : 0
       }
    }

This will dump all the countries, and you will be able to load them later.  You
could review L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures> for a better understanding of the way
fixture rule sets are creating, but this is basically saying: "Dump everything
in the Country source, and don't follow any relationships from Country or to
Country."

Now that you have the new, custom fixture, lets dump all the sets:

    dbic-migration -Ilib dump_all_sets

Please note that if you 'played' with the database after doing the update, any
new additional data will now become part of your fixtures.  This may or may not
be desirable.  Let's see the list of new fixtures:

    /share
      /fixtures
        /1
          (Same as before)
        /2
          /all_tables
            _dumper_version
            /artist
              1.fix
              2.fix
            /cd
              (1-3.fix)
            /country
              (1-3.fix)
            /track
              (1-7.fix)
          /countries
            _dumper_version
            /country
              (1-3.fix)
          /conf
            all_tables.json
            countries.json

So now you have two sets of fixtures, the C<all_tables> and the C<countries>
sets!

=head1 SUMMARY

    dbic-migration -Ilib status
    Schema is 2
    Deployed database is 2

You've successful crafted a migration to move your database structure and your
data from version 1 to version 2.  You've also updated your fixtures and
created a custom fixture configuration for managing your seed data.  You now
have a good system where a new developer can walk in and run one or two
commands to get a solid working database!  Congrats.

=head1 NEXT STEPS

Proceed to L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial::Testing>.

=head1 AUTHOR

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for author information

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for copyright and license information

=cut

