=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Migration::Script::Help::delete_named_sets - Delete dumped fixture sets

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dbic-migration --schema_class MyApp::Schema \
      delete_named_sets --fixture_set core --fixture_set countries

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Used to delete invalid, previously dumped fixtures for a given fixture
configuration, under the current schema (not database!) version. 

Sometimes when you are dumping fixtures for the current version, you might
make a mistake in the configuration set and want to re-dump them.  This
command clears out existing sets.

Since dumped fixtures just live on the filesystem, you can delete them using
any normal filesystem tool, so we limit this pontentially dangerous command
to deleting on the current schema fixtures.  You might use this command when
working on prepping fixures for a new version of the schema, for example.

=head1 OPTIONS

This command accepts the following options.  You may learn more about each
option by typing C<dbic-migration help OPTION>.  The following is a summary.

=head1 fixture_sets (fixture_sets)

Required.  The fixture configuration set names (basically these are the file
names of your fixture configurations, without the '.json' part.

=head2 includes (I,lib,libs,include)

Optional.

Adds the listed paths to @INC.  Handy during development when you want to use
a development schema class.


=head2 schema_class (S)

Accepts Str. Required.

This is the schema we use as the basis for creating, managing and running your
deployments.  This should be the full package namespace defining your subclass
of L<DBIx::Class::Schema>.  For example C<MyApp::Schema>.

If the L</schema_class> cannot be loaded, a hard exception will be thrown.

=head2 target_dir (D)

Optional.

When using a C<sandbox_class> for generating developer level database sandboxes,
you may wish to place the sandbox in a directory other than the default (which
is under the C<share> directory off the project root).

=head2 dbic_fixture_class

Accepts: String to a Perl Class.  Defaults to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>

Lets you specify a fixture class.

=head2 dbic_fixtures_extra_args

Accepts: HashRef.  Optional

Allows you to pass custom arguments to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::Class::Migration>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script>,
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Features>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHOR

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for author information

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for copyright and license information

=cut

