=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Migration::Script::Help::diagram - create a PNG of you database structure

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dbic-migration diagram -Ilib --schema_class MyApp::Schema
    
=head1 DESCRIPTION

Experimental feature.  This command will place a file in your L</target_dir>
called C<db-diagram-vXXX.png> where C<XXX> is he current C<schema> version.

This feature is experimental and currently does not offer any options.

=head1 OPTIONS

This command accepts the following options.  You may learn more about each
option by typing C<dbic-migration help OPTION>.  The following is a summary.

=head2 includes (I,lib,libs,include)

Optional.

Adds the listed paths to @INC.  Handy during development when you want to use
a development schema class.

=head2 schema_class (S)

Accepts String.

This is the schema we use as the basis for creating, managing and running your
deployments.  This should be the full package namespace defining your subclass
of L<DBIx::Class::Schema>.  For example C<MyApp::Schema>.

If the L</schema_class> cannot be loaded, a hard exception will be thrown.

=head2 target_dir (D)

Optional.

When using a C<sandbox_class> for generating developer level database sandboxes,
you may wish to place the sandbox in a directory other than the default (which
is under the C<share> directory off the project root).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::Class::Migration>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script>,
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Features>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHOR

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for author information

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for copyright and license information

=cut

