=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Migration::Script::Help::downgrade - Downgrade your existing database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dbic-migration downgrade --schema_class MyApp::Schema --to_version 2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Run downgrade files to either bring the database into sync with the current
schema version, or stop at an intermediate version specified via L</to_version>

=head1 OPTIONS

This command accepts the following options.  You may learn more about each
option by typing C<dbic-migration help OPTION>.  The following is a summary.

=head2 includes (I,lib,libs,include)

Optional.

Adds the listed paths to @INC.  Handy during development when you want to use
a development schema class.

=head2 to_version

aliases:V, Optional

This is the target version of the database we are installing.  The version
named must be have been previously prepared.  If not specified, we will use
the current C<Schema> class version.

=head2 schema_class (S)

Accepts Str. Required.

This is the schema we use as the basis for creating, managing and running your
deployments.  This should be the full package namespace defining your subclass
of L<DBIx::Class::Schema>.  For example C<MyApp::Schema>.

If the L</schema_class> cannot be loaded, a hard exception will be thrown.

=head2 target_dir (D)

Optional.

When using a C<sandbox_class> for generating developer level database sandboxes,
you may wish to place the sandbox in a directory other than the default (which
is under the C<share> directory off the project root).

=head2 sandbox_class

Aliases: T, sb

Accepts: String (default: SqliteSandbox)

The class we use to create a developer level database sandbox.

You can change this to either 'PostgresqlSandbox' or 'MySQLSandbox', which will
create a sandbox using either L<DBIx::Class::Migration::MySQLSandbox> or 
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::PostgresqlSandbox>.

=head2 user

Aliases: U

=head2 password

Aliases: P

=head2 dsn

Connection information to an already created and running instance of a database.
If you don't specify this, we will assume you want a developer level sandbox (
See L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script/"sandbox_class">).

=head2 dbic_fixture_class

Accepts: String to a Perl Class.  Defaults to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>

Lets you specify a fixture class.

=head2 dbic_fixtures_extra_args

Accepts: HashRef.  Optional

Allows you to pass custom arguments to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>.

=head2 dbic_connect_attrs

=head2 dbi_connect_attrs

Accepts: HashRef, Optional

Lets you send custom attributes at C<connect> time to either L<DBIx::Class>
or the underlying L<DBI> and your storage C<DBD>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::Class::Migration>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script>,
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Features>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHOR

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for author information

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for copyright and license information

=cut

