=head1 NAME

DBIx::Class::Migration::Script::Help::populate - Install fixtures to a database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dbic-migration populate --fixture_set core --fixture_set countries

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Installs a prepared migration to  either the current schema version or the target
version specified via L</to_version> to the database connected via the L</dsn>,
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script/"username"> and L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script/"password">
(or to a developer level sandbox as defined by the
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script/"sandbox_class">).

You can't install to a database if the tables already exist.  See C<drop_tables>.

=head1 OPTIONS

This command accepts the following options.  You may learn more about each
option by typing C<dbic-migration help OPTION>.  The following is a summary.

=head1 fixture_sets (fixture_sets)

Required.  The fixture configuration set names (basically these are the file
names of your fixture configurations, without the '.json' part.

=head2 includes (I,lib,libs,include)

Optional.

Adds the listed paths to @INC.  Handy during development when you want to use
a development schema class.


=head2 schema_class (S)

Accepts Str. Required.

This is the schema we use as the basis for creating, managing and running your
deployments.  This should be the full package namespace defining your subclass
of L<DBIx::Class::Schema>.  For example C<MyApp::Schema>.

If the L</schema_class> cannot be loaded, a hard exception will be thrown.

=head2 target_dir (D)

Optional.

When using a C<sandbox_class> for generating developer level database sandboxes,
you may wish to place the sandbox in a directory other than the default (which
is under the C<share> directory off the project root).

=head2 sandbox_class

Aliases: T, sb

Accepts: String (default: SqliteSandbox)

The class we use to create a developer level database sandbox.

You can change this to either 'PostgresqlSandbox' or 'MySQLSandbox', which will
create a sandbox using either L<DBIx::Class::Migration::MySQLSandbox> or 
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::PostgresqlSandbox>.

=head2 user

Aliases: U

=head2 password

Aliases: P

=head2 dsn

Connection information to an already created and running instance of a database.
If you don't specify this, we will assume you want a developer level sandbox (
See L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script/"sandbox_class">).

=head2 dbic_fixture_class

Accepts: String to a Perl Class.  Defaults to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>

Lets you specify a fixture class.

=head2 dbic_fixtures_extra_args

Accepts: HashRef.  Optional

Allows you to pass custom arguments to L<DBIx::Class::Fixtures>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::Class::Migration>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Script>,
L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Features>, L<DBIx::Class::Migration::Tutorial>

=head1 AUTHOR

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for author information

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

See L<DBIx::Class::Migration> for copyright and license information

=cut

